An interactive tutorial on specifying and implementing the simply-typed
lambda calculus in Coq.


INSTALLATION

  This tutorial depends on the `Metalib.Metatheory` library, available from
  this repository. Make sure that you compile and install the library _first_.

  After you have done that, you can use make to compile the tutorial material
  split out the solutions, and generate the documentation.

    `make`                  - Split solutions and compile all Coq files
    `make html`             - Make documentation

SPLITTING

  Some of the files in this tutorial include exercises and the solutions 
  to those exercises are embedded in the files. If you want to go through 
  this tutorial in "tutorial mode", you should look at the `_full.v` versions
  of the file. To see a cleaned up version of the solutions check out the 
  `_sol.v` version.

CONTENTS

Read through the tutorial files in this order. Some files have embedded
exercises; their solutions are in the associated `_sol.v` file.

     Lec1_full.v       - First set of lecture notes, with exercises
                         about LN
     Definitions.v     - Specification of STLC using locally nameless
                         representation (LN)
     Lec2_full.v       - LN continued: type soundness for STLC
     Lemmas.v          - Auxiliary lemmas about LN, generated by LNgen tool
     Nominal_full.v    - Definition of STLC using nominal representation,
                         abstract machine based small-step semantics
     Connect_full.v    - Proof that nominal abstract machine implements
                         LN substitution-based small-step semantics

Warning: the exercises start simple, but ramp up. The first two exercise files
have significantly simpler exercises than the second two files.

EXTRA

This directory also includes files and recipes that were used to generate
the some of the above definitions and lemmas, using
the [Ott](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~pes20/ott/)
and [LNgen](https://github.com/plclub/lngen) tools.

     stlc.ott          - Ott specification of STLC
     stlc.mng          - LaTeX source
     gen.mk            - Makefile recipes for invoking Ott/LNgen/LaTex

     stlc.pdf          - PDF version of rules
     Stlc.v            - Ott-generated version of `Definitions.v`
     Stlc_inf.v        - LNgen generated version of `Lemmas.v`

  If you have Ott and LNgen installed, you may also generate the files above.

    `make -f gen.mk stlc.pdf`
    `make -f gen.mk Stlc.v`
    `make -f gen.mk Stlc_inf.v`

CREDITS

 Tutorial author: Stephanie Weirich, based on prior a tutorial by Brian
 Aydemir and Stephanie Weirich, with help from Aaron Bohannon, Nate Foster,
 Benjamin Pierce, Jeffrey Vaughan, Dimitrios Vytiniotis, and Steve
 Zdancewic.  Adapted from code by Arthur Chargu'eraud.
